In this lesson I'm going to show you how to upgrade laravel app from Version five point seven to version five
point eight.
And as always here I have already opened the upgrade
guide from laravel official documentation as reference.
Like I said in the previous upgrade guide, to upgrade
Laravel app you can follow in two different options.
You can read and follow every step from the top all
the way down or you can go to bottom open this
github comparison tool
hit file changes and compare those changes
side by side
in this lesson.
firstly we'll follow the first option because by using
this we will know what changes that we need and
don't need to play in our app and how those changes
impact our app. And then when we reach at the end of
the guide we'll be using the Github comparison tool
to see some changes that may be not required and
not covered in upgrade guide
but just to make sure that our application's files are in sync.
Okay
let's open up our terminal and change the
working directory to our Laravel app.
And as always let's isolate our work into new branch
so we can always revert back to a previous version
just in case we are got unwanted error after upgrade.
here I'm going to call it laravel dash v
five point eight.
All right
back to Laravel guide. Let's jump to the top
and here
let's begin by updating the dependencies. Here we
need to update Laravel framework dependency to five
point eight.
Also we need to examine any third party packages
that consume by our app and verify we are using
the proper version for laravel 5.8. To do this
Let's head over to our editor
open composer.json. Then here
let's change the laravel framework vision to five point eight.
Let's see what else that we need to
change in this file back to our browser.
Go to Github comparison tools then find composer.json.
Here we need to update Nuno maduro collison form
version 2 to version 3 and php unit from version
7.0 to 7.5.
Here we have laravel debug bar but currently
the version 3.2 is still the current version. So we
don't need to change this.
All right let's save the change
back to our terminal.
And here let's update our dependency packages by typing composer
update
while it's updating
we can head over to Laravel upgrade
guide and follow the next step.
Let's see the application contract section. Here in the
environment method because we did not implement
this contract so we can skip this.
Then here we see added methods
to illuminate contract foundation application. Again
we did not implement this interface so we can
skip this.
Let's see the authentication
here in password reset notification
route parameter when using laravel 5.7
The token is passed to the route helper without explicit name. But in a Laravel 5.8 the token is passed
to the route helper explicitly.
Here because we did not define the password
dot reset manually so we can skip this. Next
let's see new default password length.
As you can see the likelihood of impact is high
the required password length when choosing or resetting a
password was changed to add characters. So let's switch
over to our editor
then open register controller. Here let's change
this to eight and we don't need to do anything
with reset password controller because the validation
rules defined in Laravel framework. Back
to our browser
and here we can skip this cache section
the likelihood of impact could be very height.
But since we are not using this currently we can skip the section.
here in collection section.
The add method has been removed again since we did not extending the collection.
We can skip this also we can ignore these for square method because we did not extending it.
We can skip this console section as well as container.
Let's see the data section and quoted my sequel JSON values likelihood of impact is low the query builder
will no return and quoted JSON values when using my sequel and more IDB we can skip this
single light likelihood of impact medium so if you're using all the sequel version.
Make sure you update it to second version three point eight point eight or higher migration in big increments
level 5 when 8.
Now using big increments method on 80 columns definition this method produce unsigned big integer primary
key are increment as noted here.
This will not affect any existing code in our project.
Just to be aware that 4 in your column must be of the same type probably in a prior version.
We were using unsigned integer to define our foreign key but now we need to define it as unsigned big
integer
now in all connection.
We can skip this it's physically fix the monthly words model names ending to be correctly pluralist.
Here we can also skip this because we did not use a custom before to model
the load count method.
Edit in a lock and model since we did not define this such method we don't have to worry about this
we can skip this one this one and this one next in environment verbal passing now the hash symbol will
be considered as a command.
So in the previous version if you define the reveal value as full hash bar then you have the value as
it is through hash bar.
But now if you define the same value you will have only foo because hash bar 3.
Ask men so to preserve the previous behavior you have to wrap the values in quotes.
I'm sure I don't have these values so I'll move on to the next section
here we can skip this event section.
It's also the exception handling
now in male.
There was a change in modern file directory so if you have placed well overall smackdown.
Male components using vendor call and published command.
You should rename the resource vs vendor male market and directory to text and so on we can skip this
and then we can skip these cute section
these requests.
Also
routing as well
and Sessions
now here in support section.
We can see that whole array and as the Oracle Little Helper has been deprecated.
So now we should use eliminate support R for array and eliminate support stream for string.
For example we used to call as the r underscore slug.
Now we should call as the r Colin Cullen.
Select here id say the impact of this change has been marked as medium so the helper has been moved
to the new or for helper package which overs a backwards compatibility layer for all the global array
and string functions.
So let's hit this lean
copy.
This cancels in command.
So we stole our terminal
paste and hit return back to upgrade guide
and here we can skip this this one
let's also skip this testing
validation
and view
and then here in notification the likelihood of impact is high.
The next small and select notification channels has been extracted into first part of packages to use
these channels in your application.
Require the following packages.
So let's copy this command switch store terminal paste.
Copy the package name from the second command
in a space paste and return
all right.
While it's installing we can go to get hub comparison tool and see other changes that could be not cover
in this gate.
But this step is could be optional.